docs/trinity-health-website-Development-phases-checklists-plan.md, before:

# Trinity Health Zambia - Development Progress Tracker (2025)

## Development Strategy Overview

### Modern Development + Flexible Deployment Approach

**Philosophy**: Professional developer experience with flexible, cost-effective deployment options  
**Local Development**: Full DDEV + Bedrock + Sage stack (all modern benefits)  
**Production Deployment**: Choose between modern VPS hosting or traditional shared hosting  
**Cost**: Enterprise-grade development workflow with deployment options from R780-R1,788/year

---

## Design & User Experience Strategy

### **Design Inspiration: Mayo Clinic Website**
- **Primary Reference**: [mayoclinic.org](https://mayoclinic.org) - Clean, professional, trustworthy healthcare design
- **Key Design Elements to Adopt**:
  - Clean, clinical aesthetics with plenty of white space
  - Professional colour palette (adapting Mayo's blues to Trinity's maroon #880005)
  - Clear service categorisation and navigation
  - Prominent calls-to-action for appointments/consultations
  - Trust indicators (certifications, doctor credentials, testimonials)
  - Accessibility-first design approach
  - Mobile-responsive patient experience

### **Trinity Health Adaptations**:
- **Colour Scheme**: Primary #880005 (maroon) replacing Mayo's blue palette
- **Logo**: `/app/uploads/2025/06/cropped-trinity-logo.jpg` - Trinity Health branding
- **Local Context**: Zambian healthcare landscape and cultural considerations
- **Dual Specialisation**: General health + audiology services (vs Mayo's broader specialties)
- **Scale**: Boutique practice feel vs large hospital system
- **Currency**: Zambian Kwacha (ZMK) pricing and local payment methods
- **Imagery Strategy**: Professional placeholder images for services, team, facilities
- **White Space**: Generous use of white space for clean, clinical feel
- **Typography**: Clean, readable fonts with good hierarchy

---

## Pre-Development Setup

### Core Development Environment (2025 Standards)

**Requirements**:

- [x] **PHP 8.2+** (required for Sage v11 and Acorn v5)
- [x] **Node.js 18+** (for Vite build system)
- [x] **Docker** (for DDEV containerization)
- [x] **Composer 2.5+** (PHP dependency management)

#### 1. Essential Tools Installation

- [x] **Install Docker Provider** (choose one):

  ```bash
  # Docker Desktop (most common)
  brew install --cask docker
  # OR OrbStack (faster, requires license for commercial use)
  # brew install orbstack
  # OR Colima (free alternative)
  # brew install colima
  ```

- [x] **Install Core Development Tools**:

  ```bash
  # DDEV (current formula - March 2025)
  brew install ddev/ddev/ddev

  # PHP dependency manager
  brew install composer

  # Node.js 18+ (for Vite builds)
  brew install node

  # Version control
  brew install git
  ```

- [x] **Setup SSL certificates for DDEV**:

  ```bash
  mkcert -install
  ```

- [x] **Verify installations**:
  ```bash
  docker --version     # Should be 20.10+
  ddev version        # Should be 1.24.6+
  composer --version  # Should be 2.5+
  node --version      # Should be 18+
  php --version       # Should be 8.2+ (required for Sage v11)
  ```

#### 2. Development Tools & Extensions

- [x] **Install VS Code Extensions**:
  ```json
  {
    "recommendations": [
      "bmewburn.vscode-intelephense-client", // PHP IntelliSense
      "esbenp.prettier-vscode", // Prettier with Blade support
      "mrmlnc.vscode-scss", // SCSS support
      "bradlc.vscode-tailwindcss", // Tailwind CSS v4 IntelliSense
      "ms-vscode.vscode-json", // JSON support
      "formulahendry.auto-rename-tag", // HTML tag helper
      "ms-vscode.vscode-eslint" // JavaScript linting
    ]
  }
  ```

#### 3. Project Structure Validation

- [x] **Verify Bedrock structure**:
  ```bash
  # Check core Bedrock files exist
  ls -la composer.json .env.example config/
  
  # Verify Sage theme structure
  ls -la web/app/themes/trinity-health/
  
  # Confirm Vite build system
  ls -la web/app/themes/trinity-health/vite.config.js
  ```

---

## Phase 1: Core Website Development

### 1A. Foundation Setup

#### Project Initialization & Theme Configuration

- [x] **Create project from Bedrock boilerplate**:
  ```bash
  composer create-project roots/bedrock trinity-health-zambia
  cd trinity-health-zambia
  ```

- [x] **Initialize Sage theme**:
  ```bash
  composer create-project roots/sage web/app/themes/trinity-health
  cd web/app/themes/trinity-health
  npm install
  ```

- [x] **Configure DDEV environment**:
  ```bash
  ddev config --project-type=wordpress --php-version=8.2
  ddev start
  ddev launch
  ```

#### Environment Configuration

- [x] **Setup `.env` file**:
  ```env
  DB_NAME='trinity_health_db'
  DB_USER='db'
  DB_PASSWORD='db'
  DB_HOST='db'
  
  WP_ENV='development'
  WP_HOME='https://trinity-health-zambia.ddev.site'
  WP_SITEURL="${WP_HOME}/wp"
  
  # Generate these with wp-cli salts generate
  AUTH_KEY='generate-unique-key'
  SECURE_AUTH_KEY='generate-unique-key'
  # ... (additional WordPress salts)
  ```

- [x] **Initialize WordPress**:
  ```bash
  ddev wp core install --url="https://trinity-health-zambia.ddev.site" \
    --title="Trinity Health Zambia" \
    --admin_user="admin" \
    --admin_password="admin" \
    --admin_email="admin@trinityhealthzambia.com"
  ```

### 1B. Design System Implementation

#### Brand & Typography Setup

- [x] **Configure Tailwind with Trinity Health brand colors**:
  ```javascript
  // tailwind.config.js
  module.exports = {
    theme: {
      extend: {
        colors: {
          'trinity': {
            'primary': '#880005',    // Maroon
            'secondary': '#f8f9fa',  // Light grey
            'accent': '#6c757d',     // Medium grey
            'dark': '#343a40',       // Dark grey
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
  ```

- [x] **Implement responsive typography system**:
  ```scss
  // Following Mayo Clinic's clean typography approach
  @layer base {
    h1 { @apply text-4xl font-bold text-trinity-dark; }
    h2 { @apply text-3xl font-semibold text-trinity-dark; }
    h3 { @apply text-2xl font-medium text-trinity-dark; }
    body { @apply text-base text-gray-700 leading-relaxed; }
  }
  ```

#### Core Component Development

- [x] **Header component** (inspired by Mayo Clinic's clean navigation):
  ```bash
  # Create header partial
  touch web/app/themes/trinity-health/resources/views/partials/header.blade.php
  ```

- [x] **Footer component**:
  ```bash
  # Create footer partial
  touch web/app/themes/trinity-health/resources/views/partials/footer.blade.php
  ```

- [x] **Navigation system**:
  ```bash
  # Register navigation menus
  # Add to web/app/themes/trinity-health/app/setup.php
  ```

### 1C. Content Structure & Custom Fields

#### Custom Post Types (Healthcare Services)

- [x] **Install Advanced Custom Fields Pro**:
  ```bash
  ddev composer require wpengine/advanced-custom-fields-pro
  ```

- [x] **Create Health Services post type**:
  ```php
  // web/app/themes/trinity-health/app/Providers/PostTypesServiceProvider.php
  register_post_type('health_services', [
    'labels' => [
      'name' => 'Health Services',
      'singular_name' => 'Health Service'
    ],
    'public' => true,
    'has_archive' => true,
    'menu_icon' => 'dashicons-heart',
    'supports' => ['title', 'editor', 'thumbnail', 'excerpt']
  ]);
  ```

- [x] **Create Audiology Services post type**:
  ```php
  // Separate post type for audiology specialization
  register_post_type('audiology_services', [
    'labels' => [
      'name' => 'Audiology Services',
      'singular_name' => 'Audiology Service'
    ],
    'public' => true,
    'has_archive' => true,
    'menu_icon' => 'dashicons-format-audio',
    'supports' => ['title', 'editor', 'thumbnail', 'excerpt']
  ]);
  ```

#### ACF Field Groups

- [x] **Service Details field group**:
  - Service description (WYSIWYG)
  - Price range (text)
  - Duration (text)
  - Prerequisites (textarea)
  - Featured image
  - Gallery (for before/after, equipment photos)

- [x] **Team Member field group**:
  - Professional title
  - Qualifications
  - Specializations
  - Biography
  - Professional photo
  - Contact information

### 1D. Page Templates & Layout - ✅ COMPLETED

#### Template Hierarchy (Blade Templates)

- [x] **Homepage template** - Mayo Clinic inspired clean design:
  - [x] Hero section with professional messaging and imagery placeholders
  - [x] Services overview grid with hover effects
  - [x] About Dr. Mwamba section with credentials
  - [x] Contact CTA section with appointment booking
  - [x] Mobile-responsive layout with clean white space

- [x] **Header component** - Professional healthcare navigation:
  - [x] Trinity Health logo integration (`/app/uploads/2025/06/cropped-trinity-logo.jpg`)
  - [x] Clean navigation with hover states
  - [x] Mobile-responsive hamburger menu
  - [x] Prominent "Book Appointment" CTA button
  - [x] Sticky header with subtle shadow

- [x] **Footer component** - Comprehensive practice information:
  - [x] Contact details with icons
  - [x] Practice hours display
  - [x] Quick navigation links
  - [x] Emergency care information
  - [x] Professional color scheme matching brand

#### Interactive Components Library

- [x] **Mobile menu system**:
  - [x] Accessible hamburger toggle with ARIA attributes
  - [x] Slide-out navigation with smooth transitions
  - [x] Click-outside and ESC key close functionality
  - [x] Icon animation between hamburger and close states

- [x] **JavaScript enhancements**:
  - [x] Form validation with healthcare focus
  - [x] Smooth scrolling for anchor links
  - [x] Service card hover effects
  - [x] Accessible carousel system for testimonials
  - [x] Back-to-top button for long medical content

- [x] **CSS framework**:
  - [x] Trinity Health color palette (#880005 maroon primary)
  - [x] Mayo Clinic inspired clean styling
  - [x] Professional typography with Inter font
  - [x] Comprehensive healthcare-focused utilities
  - [x] Mobile-first responsive design

### 1E. Responsive Implementation - ✅ COMPLETED

#### Mobile-First Development

- [x] **Mobile navigation** - Fully implemented:
  - [x] Hamburger menu with smooth animations
  - [x] Touch-friendly buttons (min 44px tap targets)
  - [x] Optimized for small screens with proper spacing
  - [x] Accessible focus management and keyboard navigation

- [x] **Service cards responsive grid** - Mayo Clinic inspired layout:
  - [x] Single column on mobile (grid-cols-1)
  - [x] Two columns on tablet (md:grid-cols-2)
  - [x] Three columns on desktop (lg:grid-cols-3)
  - [x] Consistent spacing and hover effects
  - [x] Professional card shadows and transitions

- [x] **Responsive typography and spacing**:
  - [x] Fluid typography scaling from mobile to desktop
  - [x] Generous white space following Mayo Clinic aesthetic
  - [x] Optimal line lengths for medical content readability
  - [x] Consistent vertical rhythm throughout

---

## Phase 2A: Advanced Features

### 2A. Content Management

#### WordPress Admin Customization

- [ ] **Custom admin dashboard**:
  - Trinity Health branding
  - Quick links to common tasks
  - Service management shortcuts

- [ ] **Content editing improvements**:
  - Custom Gutenberg blocks for services
  - Template parts for consistent layouts
  - Media library organization

#### SEO & Performance

- [ ] **Install Yoast SEO**:
  ```bash
  ddev composer require yoast/wordpress-seo
  ```

- [ ] **Performance optimization**:
  - Image compression
  - CSS/JS minification via Vite
  - Caching strategy
  - Lazy loading implementation

### 2B. Contact & Communication

#### Contact Form System

- [ ] **Install Contact Form 7**:
  ```bash
  ddev composer require contact-form-7/contact-form-7
  ```

- [ ] **Create specialized contact forms**:
  - General health inquiry form
  - Audiology consultation form
  - Appointment request form
  - Emergency contact form

- [ ] **Form routing logic**:
  ```php
  // Route forms to appropriate departments
  // General health → Dr. Mwamba
  // Audiology → Audiology department
  // Emergency → Priority handling
  ```

#### Email Integration

- [ ] **SMTP configuration**:
  ```bash
  ddev composer require wp-mail-smtp/wp-mail-smtp
  ```

- [ ] **Email templates**:
  - Appointment confirmations
  - Service inquiries acknowledgments
  - Follow-up sequences

### 2C. Location & Practice Information

#### Practice Details Implementation

- [ ] **Location pages**:
  - Main practice location
  - Contact information
  - Operating hours
  - Directions and parking

- [ ] **Google Maps integration**:
  ```javascript
  // Embed practice location map
  // Custom markers with Trinity Health branding
  ```

- [ ] **Accessibility information**:
  - Wheelchair access details
  - Public transport links
  - Parking availability

---

## Phase 2B: E-commerce Integration (Future)

### 2B. Product Management

#### WooCommerce Setup

- [ ] **Install WooCommerce**:
  ```bash
  ddev composer require woocommerce/woocommerce
  ```

- [ ] **Product categories**:
  - Hearing aids
  - Audiology equipment
  - Health supplements
  - Medical devices

#### Payment Integration

- [ ] **Zambian payment gateways**:
  - Mobile money integration (MTN, Airtel)
  - Bank transfer options
  - Cash payment coordination

- [ ] **Pro forma invoice system**:
  - Generate estimates
  - Convert to full invoices
  - Payment tracking

### 2C. Inventory Management

- [ ] **Stock management**:
  - Product availability tracking
  - Reorder notifications
  - Supplier coordination

- [ ] **Customer accounts**:
  - Order history
  - Prescription tracking
  - Appointment scheduling integration

---

## Phase 3: Testing & Launch

### 3A. Quality Assurance

#### Cross-Device Testing

- [ ] **Device compatibility**:
  - Desktop browsers (Chrome, Firefox, Safari, Edge)
  - Mobile devices (iOS Safari, Android Chrome)
  - Tablet optimization

- [ ] **Performance testing**:
  - Page load speeds
  - Image optimization
  - JavaScript performance
  - Third-party service integration

#### Accessibility Compliance

- [ ] **WCAG 2.1 AA compliance**:
  - Screen reader compatibility
  - Keyboard navigation
  - Color contrast ratios
  - Alt text for images

- [ ] **Testing tools**:
  ```bash
  # Install accessibility testing tools
  npm install --save-dev @axe-core/cli
  ```

### 3B. Content Migration & Population

#### Content Creation

- [ ] **Service descriptions**:
  - General health services
  - Audiology services  
  - Treatment procedures
  - Equipment information

- [ ] **About section**:
  - Dr. Mwamba biography
  - Practice history
  - Mission and values
  - Team introductions

#### Media Assets

- [ ] **Photography**:
  - Professional headshots
  - Practice facility photos
  - Equipment images
  - Before/after treatment photos (with consent)

- [ ] **Content optimization**:
  - SEO-friendly descriptions
  - Local search optimization
  - Medical terminology glossary

### 3C. Launch Preparation

#### Domain & Hosting Setup

- [ ] **Domain configuration**:
  - Purchase trinityhealthzambia.com (or similar)
  - SSL certificate installation
  - DNS configuration

- [ ] **Hosting deployment**:
  - Choose deployment strategy (VPS vs shared hosting)
  - Database migration
  - File transfer and permissions

#### Launch Checklist

- [ ] **Pre-launch testing**:
  - All forms functional
  - Email delivery working
  - Payment systems tested
  - Contact information verified

- [ ] **Go-live process**:
  - DNS propagation
  - Redirect old URLs (if applicable)
  - Monitor for errors
  - Performance verification

---

## Phase 4: Post-Launch Optimization

### 4A. Analytics & Monitoring

#### Performance Tracking

- [ ] **Google Analytics setup**:
  - Goal tracking (contact form submissions)
  - User journey analysis
  - Service page performance

- [ ] **Search Console configuration**:
  - Sitemap submission
  - Search performance monitoring
  - Technical issue alerts

#### User Experience Monitoring

- [ ] **Heat mapping tools**:
  - User interaction patterns
  - Form abandonment tracking
  - Navigation optimization

- [ ] **A/B testing setup**:
  - Call-to-action optimization
  - Service presentation testing
  - Contact form improvements

### 4B. Content Strategy

#### SEO Optimization

- [ ] **Local SEO**:
  - Google My Business setup
  - Local directory listings
  - Review management system

- [ ] **Content marketing**:
  - Health blog setup
  - Educational content creation
  - Social media integration

#### Patient Education

- [ ] **Resource library**:
  - Health condition information
  - Treatment preparation guides
  - Post-treatment care instructions

- [ ] **FAQ system**:
  - Common questions database
  - Search functionality
  - Regular updates

---

## Phase 5: Advanced Features & Scaling

### 5A. Advanced Functionality

#### Online Booking System

- [ ] **Appointment scheduling**:
  - Calendar integration
  - Availability management
  - Automated confirmations
  - Reminder systems

- [ ] **Patient portal**:
  - Medical history access
  - Test results viewing
  - Appointment management
  - Prescription tracking

#### E-commerce Expansion

- [ ] **Product catalog expansion**:
  - Hearing aid selection tools
  - Product comparison features
  - Professional recommendation system

- [ ] **Inventory management database design**

### Hosting Migration Path

- [ ] **Plan hosting upgrade strategy**:
  - [ ] Current: Flexible deployment (VPS or shared hosting)
  - [ ] Growth option: VPS scaling or dedicated servers
  - [ ] Scale option: Cloud hosting with CI/CD pipelines

### Technology Roadmap

- [ ] **Document technology evolution plan**:
  - [ ] 2025: Current Bedrock + Sage setup
  - [ ] 2026: Evaluate headless WordPress implementation
  - [ ] 2027: Consider JAMstack migration (if needed)

---

## Project Completion Checklist

### Final Deliverables

- [ ] **Client handover documentation**:

  - [ ] WordPress admin training materials
  - [ ] Content management guidelines
  - [ ] Contact information for ongoing support
  - [ ] Security and backup procedures

- [ ] **Technical documentation**:

  - [ ] Development environment setup guide
  - [ ] Build and deployment procedures
  - [ ] Emergency response procedures
  - [ ] Update and maintenance workflows

- [ ] **Project completion sign-off**:
  - [ ] Client approval of final website
  - [ ] Domain transfer (if applicable)
  - [ ] Hosting account handover
  - [ ] Final invoice and payment

**Project Status**: ⏳ In Progress  
**Design Inspiration**: Mayo Clinic - Clean, professional healthcare design  
**Estimated Completion**: [Add target date]  
**Next Milestone**: Choose deployment strategy (Phase 2A or 2B)

---

## Deployment Strategy Summary

### **Phase 2A: VPS Deployment (RECOMMENDED)**
- **Cost**: R780/year (56% savings)
- **Setup Time**: ~3 hours
- **Benefits**: Enterprise performance, full control, direct Bedrock deployment
- **Best For**: Technical clients, future scalability, cost optimization

### **Phase 2B: Build Script Deployment (ALTERNATIVE)**
- **Cost**: R1,788/year (existing Afrihost)
- **Development Time**: 2-3 days
- **Benefits**: No server management, familiar hosting
- **Best For**: Non-technical clients, existing hosting relationships

This flexible development strategy provides Trinity Health with **professional development experience** while offering **optimal deployment choices** based on their technical comfort level and business requirements, ensuring both **immediate success** and **long-term scalability**.

**Mayo Clinic Design Inspiration**: The website will follow Mayo Clinic's clean, trustworthy aesthetic adapted for Trinity Health's brand identity and Zambian healthcare context.

Commit message:

feat: Add button hover states for improved accessibility and professional appearance

docs/trinity-health-website-Development-phases-checklists-plan.md, after:

# Trinity Health Zambia - Development Progress Tracker (2025)

## Development Strategy Overview

### Modern Development + Flexible Deployment Approach

**Philosophy**: Professional developer experience with flexible, cost-effective deployment options  
**Local Development**: Full DDEV + Bedrock + Sage stack (all modern benefits)  
**Production Deployment**: Choose between modern VPS hosting or traditional shared hosting  
**Cost**: Enterprise-grade development workflow with deployment options from R780-R1,788/year

---

## Design & User Experience Strategy

### **Design Inspiration: Mayo Clinic Website**
- **Primary Reference**: [mayoclinic.org](https://mayoclinic.org) - Clean, professional, trustworthy healthcare design
- **Key Design Elements to Adopt**:
  - Clean, clinical aesthetics with plenty of white space
  - Professional colour palette (adapting Mayo's blues to Trinity's maroon #880005)
  - Clear service categorisation and navigation
  - Prominent calls-to-action for appointments/consultations
  - Trust indicators (certifications, doctor credentials, testimonials)
  - Accessibility-first design approach
  - Mobile-responsive patient experience

### **Trinity Health Adaptations**:
- **Colour Scheme**: Primary #880005 (maroon) replacing Mayo's blue palette
- **Logo**: `/app/uploads/2025/06/cropped-trinity-logo.jpg` - Trinity Health branding
- **Local Context**: Zambian healthcare landscape and cultural considerations
- **Dual Specialisation**: General health + audiology services (vs Mayo's broader specialties)
- **Scale**: Boutique practice feel vs large hospital system
- **Currency**: Zambian Kwacha (ZMK) pricing and local payment methods
- **Imagery Strategy**: Professional placeholder images for services, team, facilities
- **White Space**: Generous use of white space for clean, clinical feel
- **Typography**: Clean, readable fonts with good hierarchy

---

## Pre-Development Setup

### Core Development Environment (2025 Standards)

**Requirements**:

- [x] **PHP 8.2+** (required for Sage v11 and Acorn v5)
- [x] **Node.js 18+** (for Vite build system)
- [x] **Docker** (for DDEV containerization)
- [x] **Composer 2.5+** (PHP dependency management)

#### 1. Essential Tools Installation

- [x] **Install Docker Provider** (choose one):

  ```bash
  # Docker Desktop (most common)
  brew install --cask docker
  # OR OrbStack (faster, requires license for commercial use)
  # brew install orbstack
  # OR Colima (free alternative)
  # brew install colima
  ```

- [x] **Install Core Development Tools**:

  ```bash
  # DDEV (current formula - March 2025)
  brew install ddev/ddev/ddev

  # PHP dependency manager
  brew install composer

  # Node.js 18+ (for Vite builds)
  brew install node

  # Version control
  brew install git
  ```

- [x] **Setup SSL certificates for DDEV**:

  ```bash
  mkcert -install
  ```

- [x] **Verify installations**:
  ```bash
  docker --version     # Should be 20.10+
  ddev version        # Should be 1.24.6+
  composer --version  # Should be 2.5+
  node --version      # Should be 18+
  php --version       # Should be 8.2+ (required for Sage v11)
  ```

#### 2. Development Tools & Extensions

- [x] **Install VS Code Extensions**:
  ```json
  {
    "recommendations": [
      "bmewburn.vscode-intelephense-client", // PHP IntelliSense
      "esbenp.prettier-vscode", // Prettier with Blade support
      "mrmlnc.vscode-scss", // SCSS support
      "bradlc.vscode-tailwindcss", // Tailwind CSS v4 IntelliSense
      "ms-vscode.vscode-json", // JSON support
      "formulahendry.auto-rename-tag", // HTML tag helper
      "ms-vscode.vscode-eslint" // JavaScript linting
    ]
  }
  ```

#### 3. Project Structure Validation

- [x] **Verify Bedrock structure**:
  ```bash
  # Check core Bedrock files exist
  ls -la composer.json .env.example config/
  
  # Verify Sage theme structure
  ls -la web/app/themes/trinity-health/
  
  # Confirm Vite build system
  ls -la web/app/themes/trinity-health/vite.config.js
  ```

---

## Phase 1: Core Website Development

### 1A. Foundation Setup

#### Project Initialization & Theme Configuration

- [x] **Create project from Bedrock boilerplate**:
  ```bash
  composer create-project roots/bedrock trinity-health-zambia
  cd trinity-health-zambia
  ```

- [x] **Initialize Sage theme**:
  ```bash
  composer create-project roots/sage web/app/themes/trinity-health
  cd web/app/themes/trinity-health
  npm install
  ```

- [x] **Configure DDEV environment**:
  ```bash
  ddev config --project-type=wordpress --php-version=8.2
  ddev start
  ddev launch
  ```

#### Environment Configuration

- [x] **Setup `.env` file**:
  ```env
  DB_NAME='trinity_health_db'
  DB_USER='db'
  DB_PASSWORD='db'
  DB_HOST='db'
  
  WP_ENV='development'
  WP_HOME='https://trinity-health-zambia.ddev.site'
  WP_SITEURL="${WP_HOME}/wp"
  
  # Generate these with wp-cli salts generate
  AUTH_KEY='generate-unique-key'
  SECURE_AUTH_KEY='generate-unique-key'
  # ... (additional WordPress salts)
  ```

- [x] **Initialize WordPress**:
  ```bash
  ddev wp core install --url="https://trinity-health-zambia.ddev.site" \
    --title="Trinity Health Zambia" \
    --admin_user="admin" \
    --admin_password="admin" \
    --admin_email="admin@trinityhealthzambia.com"
  ```

### 1B. Design System Implementation

#### Brand & Typography Setup

- [x] **Configure Tailwind with Trinity Health brand colors**:
  ```javascript
  // tailwind.config.js
  module.exports = {
    theme: {
      extend: {
        colors: {
          'trinity': {
            'primary': '#880005',    // Maroon
            'secondary': '#f8f9fa',  // Light grey
            'accent': '#6c757d',     // Medium grey
            'dark': '#343a40',       // Dark grey
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
  ```

- [x] **Implement responsive typography system**:
  ```scss
  // Following Mayo Clinic's clean typography approach
  @layer base {
    h1 { @apply text-4xl font-bold text-trinity-dark; }
    h2 { @apply text-3xl font-semibold text-trinity-dark; }
    h3 { @apply text-2xl font-medium text-trinity-dark; }
    body { @apply text-base text-gray-700 leading-relaxed; }
  }
  ```

#### Core Component Development

- [x] **Header component** (inspired by Mayo Clinic's clean navigation):
  ```bash
  # Create header partial
  touch web/app/themes/trinity-health/resources/views/partials/header.blade.php
  ```

- [x] **Footer component**:
  ```bash
  # Create footer partial
  touch web/app/themes/trinity-health/resources/views/partials/footer.blade.php
  ```

- [x] **Navigation system**:
  ```bash
  # Register navigation menus
  # Add to web/app/themes/trinity-health/app/setup.php
  ```

### 1C. Content Structure & Custom Fields

#### Custom Post Types (Healthcare Services)

- [x] **Install Advanced Custom Fields Pro**:
  ```bash
  ddev composer require wpengine/advanced-custom-fields-pro
  ```

- [x] **Create Health Services post type**:
  ```php
  // web/app/themes/trinity-health/app/Providers/PostTypesServiceProvider.php
  register_post_type('health_services', [
    'labels' => [
      'name' => 'Health Services',
      'singular_name' => 'Health Service'
    ],
    'public' => true,
    'has_archive' => true,
    'menu_icon' => 'dashicons-heart',
    'supports' => ['title', 'editor', 'thumbnail', 'excerpt']
  ]);
  ```

- [x] **Create Audiology Services post type**:
  ```php
  // Separate post type for audiology specialization
  register_post_type('audiology_services', [
    'labels' => [
      'name' => 'Audiology Services',
      'singular_name' => 'Audiology Service'
    ],
    'public' => true,
    'has_archive' => true,
    'menu_icon' => 'dashicons-format-audio',
    'supports' => ['title', 'editor', 'thumbnail', 'excerpt']
  ]);
  ```

#### ACF Field Groups

- [x] **Service Details field group**:
  - Service description (WYSIWYG)
  - Price range (text)
  - Duration (text)
  - Prerequisites (textarea)
  - Featured image
  - Gallery (for before/after, equipment photos)

- [x] **Team Member field group**:
  - Professional title
  - Qualifications
  - Specializations
  - Biography
  - Professional photo
  - Contact information

### 1D. Page Templates & Layout - ✅ COMPLETED

#### Template Hierarchy (Blade Templates)

- [x] **Homepage template** - Mayo Clinic inspired clean design:
  - [x] Hero section with professional messaging and imagery placeholders
  - [x] Services overview grid with hover effects
  - [x] About Dr. Mwamba section with credentials
  - [x] Contact CTA section with appointment booking
  - [x] Mobile-responsive layout with clean white space

- [x] **Header component** - Professional healthcare navigation:
  - [x] Trinity Health logo integration (`/app/uploads/2025/06/cropped-trinity-logo.jpg`)
  - [x] Clean navigation with hover states
  - [x] Mobile-responsive hamburger menu
  - [x] Prominent "Book Appointment" CTA button
  - [x] Sticky header with subtle shadow

- [x] **Footer component** - Comprehensive practice information:
  - [x] Contact details with icons
  - [x] Practice hours display
  - [x] Quick navigation links
  - [x] Emergency care information
  - [x] Professional color scheme matching brand

#### Interactive Components Library

- [x] **Mobile menu system**:
  - [x] Accessible hamburger toggle with ARIA attributes
  - [x] Slide-out navigation with smooth transitions
  - [x] Click-outside and ESC key close functionality
  - [x] Icon animation between hamburger and close states

- [x] **JavaScript enhancements**:
  - [x] Form validation with healthcare focus
  - [x] Smooth scrolling for anchor links
  - [x] Service card hover effects
  - [x] Accessible carousel system for testimonials
  - [x] Back-to-top button for long medical content

- [x] **CSS framework**:
  - [x] Trinity Health color palette (#880005 maroon primary)
  - [x] Mayo Clinic inspired clean styling
  - [x] Professional typography with Inter font
  - [x] Comprehensive healthcare-focused utilities
  - [x] Mobile-first responsive design
  - [x] Button hover states with consistent white text on brand colors
  - [x] No text underlines on button hover for professional appearance

### 1E. Responsive Implementation - ✅ COMPLETED

#### Mobile-First Development

- [x] **Mobile navigation** - Fully implemented:
  - [x] Hamburger menu with smooth animations
  - [x] Touch-friendly buttons (min 44px tap targets)
  - [x] Optimized for small screens with proper spacing
  - [x] Accessible focus management and keyboard navigation

- [x] **Service cards responsive grid** - Mayo Clinic inspired layout:
  - [x] Single column on mobile (grid-cols-1)
  - [x] Two columns on tablet (md:grid-cols-2)
  - [x] Three columns on desktop (lg:grid-cols-3)
  - [x] Consistent spacing and hover effects
  - [x] Professional card shadows and transitions

- [x] **Responsive typography and spacing**:
  - [x] Fluid typography scaling from mobile to desktop
  - [x] Generous white space following Mayo Clinic aesthetic
  - [x] Optimal line lengths for medical content readability
  - [x] Consistent vertical rhythm throughout

---

## Phase 2A: Advanced Features

### 2A. Content Management

#### WordPress Admin Customization

- [ ] **Custom admin dashboard**:
  - Trinity Health branding
  - Quick links to common tasks
  - Service management shortcuts

- [ ] **Content editing improvements**:
  - Custom Gutenberg blocks for services
  - Template parts for consistent layouts
  - Media library organization

#### SEO & Performance

- [ ] **Install Yoast SEO**:
  ```bash
  ddev composer require yoast/wordpress-seo
  ```

- [ ] **Performance optimization**:
  - Image compression
  - CSS/JS minification via Vite
  - Caching strategy
  - Lazy loading implementation

### 2B. Contact & Communication

#### Contact Form System

- [ ] **Install Contact Form 7**:
  ```bash
  ddev composer require contact-form-7/contact-form-7
  ```

- [ ] **Create specialized contact forms**:
  - General health inquiry form
  - Audiology consultation form
  - Appointment request form
  - Emergency contact form

- [ ] **Form routing logic**:
  ```php
  // Route forms to appropriate departments
  // General health → Dr. Mwamba
  // Audiology → Audiology department
  // Emergency → Priority handling
  ```

#### Email Integration

- [ ] **SMTP configuration**:
  ```bash
  ddev composer require wp-mail-smtp/wp-mail-smtp
  ```

- [ ] **Email templates**:
  - Appointment confirmations
  - Service inquiries acknowledgments
  - Follow-up sequences

### 2C. Location & Practice Information

#### Practice Details Implementation

- [ ] **Location pages**:
  - Main practice location
  - Contact information
  - Operating hours
  - Directions and parking

- [ ] **Google Maps integration**:
  ```javascript
  // Embed practice location map
  // Custom markers with Trinity Health branding
  ```

- [ ] **Accessibility information**:
  - Wheelchair access details
  - Public transport links
  - Parking availability

---

## Phase 2B: E-commerce Integration (Future)

### 2B. Product Management

#### WooCommerce Setup

- [ ] **Install WooCommerce**:
  ```bash
  ddev composer require woocommerce/woocommerce
  ```

- [ ] **Product categories**:
  - Hearing aids
  - Audiology equipment
  - Health supplements
  - Medical devices

#### Payment Integration

- [ ] **Zambian payment gateways**:
  - Mobile money integration (MTN, Airtel)
  - Bank transfer options
  - Cash payment coordination

- [ ] **Pro forma invoice system**:
  - Generate estimates
  - Convert to full invoices
  - Payment tracking

### 2C. Inventory Management

- [ ] **Stock management**:
  - Product availability tracking
  - Reorder notifications
  - Supplier coordination

- [ ] **Customer accounts**:
  - Order history
  - Prescription tracking
  - Appointment scheduling integration

---

## Phase 3: Testing & Launch

### 3A. Quality Assurance

#### Cross-Device Testing

- [ ] **Device compatibility**:
  - Desktop browsers (Chrome, Firefox, Safari, Edge)
  - Mobile devices (iOS Safari, Android Chrome)
  - Tablet optimization

- [ ] **Performance testing**:
  - Page load speeds
  - Image optimization
  - JavaScript performance
  - Third-party service integration

#### Accessibility Compliance

- [ ] **WCAG 2.1 AA compliance**:
  - Screen reader compatibility
  - Keyboard navigation
  - Color contrast ratios
  - Alt text for images

- [ ] **Testing tools**:
  ```bash
  # Install accessibility testing tools
  npm install --save-dev @axe-core/cli
  ```

### 3B. Content Migration & Population

#### Content Creation

- [ ] **Service descriptions**:
  - General health services
  - Audiology services  
  - Treatment procedures
  - Equipment information

- [ ] **About section**:
  - Dr. Mwamba biography
  - Practice history
  - Mission and values
  - Team introductions

#### Media Assets

- [ ] **Photography**:
  - Professional headshots
  - Practice facility photos
  - Equipment images
  - Before/after treatment photos (with consent)

- [ ] **Content optimization**:
  - SEO-friendly descriptions
  - Local search optimization
  - Medical terminology glossary

### 3C. Launch Preparation

#### Domain & Hosting Setup

- [ ] **Domain configuration**:
  - Purchase trinityhealthzambia.com (or similar)
  - SSL certificate installation
  - DNS configuration

- [ ] **Hosting deployment**:
  - Choose deployment strategy (VPS vs shared hosting)
  - Database migration
  - File transfer and permissions

#### Launch Checklist

- [ ] **Pre-launch testing**:
  - All forms functional
  - Email delivery working
  - Payment systems tested
  - Contact information verified

- [ ] **Go-live process**:
  - DNS propagation
  - Redirect old URLs (if applicable)
  - Monitor for errors
  - Performance verification

---

## Phase 4: Post-Launch Optimization

### 4A. Analytics & Monitoring

#### Performance Tracking

- [ ] **Google Analytics setup**:
  - Goal tracking (contact form submissions)
  - User journey analysis
  - Service page performance

- [ ] **Search Console configuration**:
  - Sitemap submission
  - Search performance monitoring
  - Technical issue alerts

#### User Experience Monitoring

- [ ] **Heat mapping tools**:
  - User interaction patterns
  - Form abandonment tracking
  - Navigation optimization

- [ ] **A/B testing setup**:
  - Call-to-action optimization
  - Service presentation testing
  - Contact form improvements

### 4B. Content Strategy

#### SEO Optimization

- [ ] **Local SEO**:
  - Google My Business setup
  - Local directory listings
  - Review management system

- [ ] **Content marketing**:
  - Health blog setup
  - Educational content creation
  - Social media integration

#### Patient Education

- [ ] **Resource library**:
  - Health condition information
  - Treatment preparation guides
  - Post-treatment care instructions

- [ ] **FAQ system**:
  - Common questions database
  - Search functionality
  - Regular updates

---

## Phase 5: Advanced Features & Scaling

### 5A. Advanced Functionality

#### Online Booking System

- [ ] **Appointment scheduling**:
  - Calendar integration
  - Availability management
  - Automated confirmations
  - Reminder systems

- [ ] **Patient portal**:
  - Medical history access
  - Test results viewing
  - Appointment management
  - Prescription tracking

#### E-commerce Expansion

- [ ] **Product catalog expansion**:
  - Hearing aid selection tools
  - Product comparison features
  - Professional recommendation system

- [ ] **Inventory management database design**

### Hosting Migration Path

- [ ] **Plan hosting upgrade strategy**:
  - [ ] Current: Flexible deployment (VPS or shared hosting)
  - [ ] Growth option: VPS scaling or dedicated servers
  - [ ] Scale option: Cloud hosting with CI/CD pipelines

### Technology Roadmap

- [ ] **Document technology evolution plan**:
  - [ ] 2025: Current Bedrock + Sage setup
  - [ ] 2026: Evaluate headless WordPress implementation
  - [ ] 2027: Consider JAMstack migration (if needed)

---

## Project Completion Checklist

### Final Deliverables

- [ ] **Client handover documentation**:

  - [ ] WordPress admin training materials
  - [ ] Content management guidelines
  - [ ] Contact information for ongoing support
  - [ ] Security and backup procedures

- [ ] **Technical documentation**:

  - [ ] Development environment setup guide
  - [ ] Build and deployment procedures
  - [ ] Emergency response procedures
  - [ ] Update and maintenance workflows

- [ ] **Project completion sign-off**:
  - [ ] Client approval of final website
  - [ ] Domain transfer (if applicable)
  - [ ] Hosting account handover
  - [ ] Final invoice and payment

**Project Status**: ⏳ In Progress  
**Design Inspiration**: Mayo Clinic - Clean, professional healthcare design  
**Estimated Completion**: [Add target date]  
**Next Milestone**: Choose deployment strategy (Phase 2A or 2B)

---

## Deployment Strategy Summary

### **Phase 2A: VPS Deployment (RECOMMENDED)**
- **Cost**: R780/year (56% savings)
- **Setup Time**: ~3 hours
- **Benefits**: Enterprise performance, full control, direct Bedrock deployment
- **Best For**: Technical clients, future scalability, cost optimization

### **Phase 2B: Build Script Deployment (ALTERNATIVE)**
- **Cost**: R1,788/year (existing Afrihost)
- **Development Time**: 2-3 days
- **Benefits**: No server management, familiar hosting
- **Best For**: Non-technical clients, existing hosting relationships

This flexible development strategy provides Trinity Health with **professional development experience** while offering **optimal deployment choices** based on their technical comfort level and business requirements, ensuring both **immediate success** and **long-term scalability**.

**Mayo Clinic Design Inspiration**: The website will follow Mayo Clinic's clean, trustworthy aesthetic adapted for Trinity Health's brand identity and Zambian healthcare context.
